== Expose

Expose allows you to dynamically adjust the 'attr_accessible' or
'attr_protected' of a model.  This is only for managing mass-assignment
security, and not overall security.

=== Model

  The following would let you mass_assign :sometimes_important when the :state
  is 'new' or 'pending'.

  class Account < ActiveRecord::Base
    include Expose::Model
  
    # name:string
    # sometimes_important:string
    # state:string ... example [:new, :pending, :closed]

    expose :sometimes_important,
      :if => Proc.new { |account| [:new,:pending].include?(account.state) }
    
    # same result as line above (just using)
    expose :sometimes_important, :state => [:new, :pending]
    
    # similar to line above
    expose :sometimes_important,
      :unless => Proc.new { |account| [:closed].include?(account.state) }
    
    # same as line above
    expose :sometimes_important, :not_state => :closed

    # using whitelist strategy
    attr_accessible :name
    
    # OR, using blacklist strategy
    # attr_protected :sometimes_important 

  end

== Notes

This gem has only been tested with Rails 3.1.rc3, but should work with Rails
3.X. It only uses the hook :mass_assignment_authorizer.

== Todo

This gem is in the early stages of development, so use at your own risk.

Plans/Ideas:
  - add 'protect' version, which does the opposite of 'expose'
  - maybe disable attr_protected.  Using this gem shows an interest in
    mass-assignment security.  Why not ensure use of a whitelist only
    strategy.
  - add controller version (so that session data can be used, ie: role of
    logged in user)
  - add better error handling and option checking, maybe add some logging
  - do not require ActiveRecord, but rather ActiveModel
  - not require adding 'include Expose::Model'.  When I do, the class variable
    '_exposures' is shared by all subclasses of ActiveRecord::Base, and each
    declared model then sees the same '_exposures'. 

== Installation

Install the gem:

  gem install expose

Or add Expose to your Gemfile and bundle it up:

  gem 'expose'

== Options

'expose' handles a series of options. Those are:

* :if * - When true, the attribute will be added to whitelist.

* :unless * - When false, the attribute will be added to whitelist.

* :state * - When in this state, the attribute will be added to whitelist.

* :not_state * - When not in this state, the attribute will be added to
  whitelist.

== Maintainers

* Mark G (http://github.com/attack)

== Contributors

* you

== Influence

* trusted-params (https://github.com/ryanb/trusted-params) -
  An ActiveController only version, not compatible with Rails 3.X.

== Bugs and Feedback

If you discover any bugs or want to drop a line, feel free to create an issue
on GitHub.

http://github.com/attack/expose/issues

MIT License. Copyright 2011 Mark G. http://github.com/attack
